Feature/2018 04 26 kafkastream (#436)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2018-10-12-kafka-stream-introduction.md

### Setup of the project
This is the really easy part, to use the streaming api from Kafka only 1 dependency must be added. 
Here is the example to do it in Maven. 
```xml
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.apache.kafka</groupId>
            <artifactId>kafka-streams</artifactId>
            <version>1.1.0</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
```
And that is it. Sometimes live can be simple :)

### Creation of the input
In the real world this would be done by the IOT devices that send there data through the network to the central system. 
But since it is not easy for demo purposes to have a sensor and a door nearby, and even less handy to open and close it a couple of hundred times to test it out,
I created a simulator that just sends data to the Kafka cluster.

This simulator creates 2 kinds of messages:
`key = 0E7E346406100585, value = T_7`
configuration information about on which floor a certain device is located.
`key = 0E7E346406100585, value = pulse@1496309915`
each time a person opens the door the key is the unique id of the device, and then a pulse and the time at which it occurred

```java

>      List<String> devices = new ArrayList<>();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    List<String> devices = new ArrayList<>();
```

    devices.add(UUID.randomUUID().toString());
    devices.add(UUID.randomUUID().toString());  
    devices.add(UUID.randomUUID().toString());

    KafkaProducer producer = new KafkaProducer(props);

    //send the device information
    for (int i = 0; i < devices.size(); i++) {
        String val = String.format("%s@%s@%s", "T", "" + (i + 1), System.currentTimeMillis());
        producer.send(new ProducerRecord("stream_in_dev", devices.get(i), val));
    }

    try {
        Thread.sleep(1000);
    } catch (InterruptedException e) {
    }

    new Random().ints(10, 0, devices.size()).forEach(i -> {
        producer.send(new ProducerRecord("stream_in", devices.get(i), "pulse@" + System.currentTimeMillis()));
        try {
            Thread.sleep(250);
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {}
    });

    producer.close();
```

> This wil create 3 floors with a random device id, and afterwards send 10 times an event for a random door that it is opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This wil create three floors with a random device id, and afterwards it will send an event for a random door being opened 10 times.
```

### Reading of the output

> For checking what happens in the system a data dumper was created that outputs all the messages on all the topics of interest (as well the input, as the output as the intermediate queues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For checking what happens in the system a data dumper was created that outputs all the messages on all the topics of interest (the input, the output and the intermediate queues included).
```

        executorService.submit(() -> {
            KafkaConsumer<String, String> consumer = new KafkaConsumer<>(defaultProperties("your_client_id"));

            List<String> topics = consumer.listTopics().keySet().stream()
                    .filter(streamName -> streamName.startsWith("stream_"))
                    .peek(log::info)
                    .collect(Collectors.toList());

            consumer.subscribe(topics);

            while (true) {
                ConsumerRecords<String, String> records = consumer.poll(100);
                records.forEach(record -> {
                            log.info("topic = {}, partition = {}, offset = {}, key = {}, value = {}",
                                    record.topic(), record.partition(), record.offset(), record.key(), record.value());
                        }
                );
            }
        });
    }
}
```
This will subscribe to all the topics that start with 'stream_' on the Kafka. 

### The main part

So we finally arrived at the part where it all happens. 

Just as a recap, the goal of this stream is to transform both input streams into a stream that gives how many people took the stairs at each floor. 

> As a start we must create a new StreamBuilder from the Kafka library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a start we must create a new `StreamBuilder` from the Kafka library
```

```java
    final StreamsBuilder builder = new StreamsBuilder();
```

We need to get the data somewhere, here we get it from the same topics our data simulater writes to.
```java
    KStream<String, String> sourceDev = builder.stream("stream_in_dev"); // which device is where
    KStream<String, String> stream_in = builder.stream("stream_in"); // the pulse messages
```

> The first stream (stream_in_dev) will be converted into a lookup table that is used when handling the second stream. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first stream (`stream_in_dev`) will be converted into a lookup table that is used when handling the second stream. 
```

> This lookup table will contain which device is installed in on what floor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lookup table will contain which device is installed on which floor.
```

```java
    KTable<String, String> streamKtableDev = sourceDev
        .groupByKey()
        .reduce((val1, val2) -> val1, Materialized.as("stream_ktable_dev"));
```

> Since one of the shortcuts we took is creating all the topics with only one partition we don't have any problems with streams not having the data it needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since one of the shortcuts we took is creating all the topics with only one partition, we don't have any problems with streams not having the data it needs.
```

> If using multiple partitions, then we should have used or the KGlobalTable 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using multiple partitions, then we should have used either the `KGlobalTable` 
```

> or make sure that the partitioning is done in such a way that we get the corresponding data from both partitions on this node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or we should have made sure that the partitioning is done in such a way that we get the corresponding data from both partitions on this node.
```

> The second stream contains the pulses. Each time a person takes the stair, a message is sent, and this must be added to the counter of the people taking the stairs at that minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second stream contains the pulses. Each time a person takes the stair, a message is sent, and this must be added to the counter of the people taking the stairs at that specific minute.
```

                .map((k, v) -> new KeyValue<>(v.substring(0, v.indexOf('@')), v.substring(v.indexOf('@') + 1)))
                .groupByKey()
                .windowedBy(TimeWindows.of(TimeUnit.MINUTES.toMillis(1)))
                .count()
                .toStream((k, v) -> String.format("%s - %s", k.key(), Date.from(Instant.ofEpochMilli(k.window().start()))))
                .mapValues(v -> "" + v)
                .to("stream_out");
```
This seems to do a lot of things and this is indeed the case. But the API makes a clean chain that is not hard to follow. 
- `.filter()` We only want the inputs that start with a pulse, the real IOT devices also send battery information and so on, on the same topic.
This could also be solved by sending them to different topics but it shows that filtering is possible
-  `.leftJoin() ` we join with the devices lookup table created with the previous KTable statement. This allows us to translate the device id into the location.
key is '0E7E346406100585' and value is 'pulse@1496309915' will be translated to the same key but with value 'T_7@1496309915' 

> -  `.map()` we map the message into something more usefull. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `.map()` we map the message into something more useful. 
```

in stead of the key '0E7E346406100585' and value 'T_7@1496309915' format we now get a key of 'T_7' and a value of '1496309915'.

> -  `.groupByKey()` we want to group these by key (Which is now the floor number and not the device id like it was in the beginning)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `.groupByKey()` we want to group these by key (which is now the floor number and not the device id like it was in the beginning)
```

-  `.windowedBy()` and create a tumbling window for each minute
-  `.count()` and within the window count the number of items 

> -  `toStream()` This means that the last 3 lines together change the stream into a stream that gives the number of message per minute for a certain floor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `toStream()` This means that the last three lines together change the stream into a stream that gives the number of messages per minute for a certain floor
```
